In the autumn of nineteen forty-four, two Frenchmen were riding their bicycles along a quiet country road, not far from the front lines.

Under a line of trees, they noticed something the war had made very familiar: American trucks, covered with netting… and behind them, a row of Sherman tanks.

An American sentry stepped out to wave them along. But the two men were not looking at him anymore. They were staring past his shoulder.

Because there, in the field, four young soldiers had walked up to one of those tanks… bent down… and lifted it off the ground.

A tank like that weighs more than thirty tons. And yet the four men carried it, turned it, and set it down again, as easily as you might move a kitchen table.

One of the Frenchmen turned to his friend and said, in complete seriousness: "These Americans… they are very strong."

The sentry did not correct him. He could not. Because what those two men had just seen was one of the best-kept secrets of the Second World War.

The tank was made of rubber. It was full of air. And the soldiers who carried it belonged to a unit that, officially, did not exist.

Today, we call them the Ghost Army. And for more than fifty years, almost nobody knew what they did.

To understand the Ghost Army, we have to go back to January of nineteen forty-four, to a training camp in Tennessee called Camp Forrest.

That winter, the United States Army quietly created a new unit with a long, forgettable name: the Twenty-Third Headquarters Special Troops.

It had about eleven hundred men. And it had one job, unlike any other job in the Army. It was not supposed to fight the enemy. It was supposed to fool him.

The idea was simple, and a little bit crazy. If you could make the Germans believe that a large American force was in one place… then the real army could move somewhere else, where it was not expected.

Wars are won and lost on information. Where is the enemy? How strong is he? Where will he strike next? The Ghost Army's mission was to make sure the Germans got all three answers wrong.

But to do that, the Army needed a very special kind of soldier.

So recruiters went looking in places the military does not usually visit: art schools in New York and Philadelphia, advertising agencies, design studios, theater companies.

They found painters and sculptors. Architects and set designers. Young men who knew how to make something look real… when it wasn't.

Among them was a young man from Indiana who loved fashion. His name was Bill Blass, and one day he would become one of the most famous designers in America.

There was a quiet young man named Ellsworth Kelly, who would later become one of the great painters of the twentieth century.

There was Arthur Singer, who would spend his life painting birds so precisely that his work filled field guides for generations.

And there were hundreds of others: men who would go on to become photographers, illustrators, art teachers and engineers.

Many of them had never imagined themselves in uniform. Now they were being trained to deceive the most powerful army in Europe… using paint, rubber, sound and imagination.